#Readme

This is the readme file for the Course Project of the Getting and Clening Data course. It contains an explanation for the files and scripts present in the Github repo where the project can be found.

##Original files
These are the files (unchanged) from the initial set given for this assignment:

1. **"activity_names.txt"**: contains the names associated to each activity performed during the measuring process.
2. **"features.txt"**: contains the names of the different variables measured in the study.
3. **"test/subject_test.txt"**: contains the ID for the subjects of the study whose activities are being measured during the test phase.
4. **"test/X_test.txt"**: contains the values of the measures made for each variable during the test phase.
5. **"test/y_test.txt"**: contains the index to which activity was being performed while measuring during the test phase.
6. **"train/subject_train.txt"**: contains the ID for the subjects of the study whose activities are being measured during the train phase.
7. **"train/X_train.txt"**: contains the values of the measures made for each variable during the test phase.
8. **"train/y_train.txt"**: contains the index to which activity was being performed while measuring during the test phase.

##Scripts generated
This is the script generated for this assignment:

1. **"run_analyis.R"**: R script that processes the data in the original data in order to obtain the summary data frame asked to be delivered.

##Data frames generated
 This is the data frame generated by the script.
 
 1. **"final_data.txt"**: contains the calculation of the means of every variable regarding "mean" or "standard deviation" from the original data frames, aggregated by activity performed while measuring and subject of study. Put in a txt file as requested.
 
##Other files
These are the final files created:

1. **"Cookbook.md"**: contains the explanations about the transformation performed over the original data and other important information regarding the data processing (such as variables names, for example)
2.  **"readme.md"**: this file.
 